Cargo integration testing release (#792)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/mainnet/smart-contracts/tutorials/piggy-bank/testing.rst

Use the |Chain_new|_ method for creating a chain with default settings and save it to the *mutable* variable ``chain``:

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports and constants omitted for brevity

   #[test]
   fn test_init() {
       let mut chain = Chain::new();
   }

Next step is to create two |Account|_ entities and add them to the ``chain``.
The simplest way to create an account is with |Account_new|_, which takes an |AccountAddress|_ and a total balance of the account.
Once constructed, use the |Chain_create_account|_ method to add it to the chain.
This step is important, as simply constructing an |Account|_ does not make the chain aware of it.

Use the addresses and initial balance defined as constants:

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports and constants omitted for brevity

   #[test]
   fn test_init() {
       let mut chain = Chain::new();
       let account_owner = Account::new(ACC_ADDR_OWNER, ACC_INITIAL_BALANCE);
       let account_other = Account::new(ACC_ADDR_OTHER, ACC_INITIAL_BALANCE);
       chain.create_account(account_owner);
       chain.create_account(account_other);
   }

> The balance of the accounts matter when using the testing library, as the cost of transactions, for example deploying a smart contract, will be deducted from the balance of the account sending the transaction.

Reviewer: Went with `balances` instead.

With the accounts created, you are ready to load and deploy the smart contract module.

> |concordium-smart-contract-testing|_ uses the compiled smart contract modules that you also deploy on the block chain.

Reviewer: I used a slight variation of your suggestion, thanks!

> Use ``cargo concordium``, which you installed in preparation for this tutorial, to compile the piggy bank to web assembly (wasm).

Reviewer 2: I think they want you to spell it as `[WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/)`

> Use ``cargo concordium``, which you installed in preparation for this tutorial, to compile the piggy bank to web assembly (wasm).

Reviewer: Added link instead, but also using `WebAssembly`.

Open a terminal and use ``cd``, short for *change directory*, to go into the root of your piggy bank project.
Then compile your contract with:

.. code-block:: console

   $cargo concordium build --out piggy_bank_part2.wasm.v1

This produces the wasm module ``piggy_bank_part2.wasm.v1`` in the root of your project.

> That is, unless you have any typos or bugs in your code.

Author: Delete this line as it is added to the previous line.

If that is the case, try to fix them using the helpful error messages from the compiler or go back to the end of part 1 and copy the full contract code again.

Going back to your test case, use the function |module_load_v1|_ to load the module.

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports and constants omitted for brevity

   #[test]
   fn test_init() {
       // .. lines omitted for brevity.
       let module = load_module_v1("piggy_bank_part2.wasm.v1").expect("Module is valid and exists");
   }

> |module_load_v1|_ loads a module on disk, which might be missing or invalid, and it thus returns a ``Result`` type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|module_load_v1|_ attempts to load a module from disk, which might be missing or invalid, and it thus returns a ``Result`` type.
```

> You can use ``unwrap``, or ``expect`` (which you provide a helpful error message), to extract the actual module from the ``Result``.

Author: I don't understand the part in parentheses.

Reviewer: I've rephrased it now.

> You can use ``unwrap``, or ``expect`` (which you provide a helpful error message), to extract the actual module from the ``Result``.

Reviewer: Yes, I switched to using `expect` throughout, but I'd prefer to keep the single sentence about `unwrap` for the rust newcomers.

Both methods will panic if the ``Result`` actually contains the ``Err`` variant, which in turn will make the test case fail.

> Next step is to deploy the module to the ``chain`` with the method |Chain_module_deploy|_.

Author: ```suggestion
The next step is to deploy the module to the ``chain`` with the method |Chain_module_deploy|_.
```

> Next step is to deploy the module to the ``chain`` with the method |Chain_module_deploy|_.

Reviewer: Accepted ;)

Since this is a transaction, you must provide an account address of the ``sender``, which will pay for the cost of the transaction.
You must also provide a |Signer|_ with a number of keys.

> This mimics the behaviour on the real chain, where one or more keys must sign a transaction.

Author: ```suggestion
This mimics the behavior on the real chain, where one or more keys must sign a transaction.
```

The only observable difference between using one or more keys is the cost of the transaction, where each extra key increases the cost slightly.
In this tutorial, you will always use a |Signer|_ with one key as that is the most common scenario.

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports and constants omitted for brevity

   #[test]

>    fn test_init() {

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should promote tests with `anyhow::Result` or another Result<_, > type. Then it's very convenient to just put `?` everywhere and you get decent results instead of having to write "expect" everywhere.

               ACC_ADDR_OWNER,
               module)
           .expect("Deploying valid module should succeed");
   }

Since deployment can fail, for example if the account doesn't have sufficient CCD to cover the cost, the method returns a ``Result``, which is unwrapped with ``expect``.
The struct returned has information about the energy used, transaction fee, and a |ModuleReference|_ that you use for initializing contracts.

With the module deployed, you are ready to initialize a contract with the chain method |Chain_contract_init|_.
The method has the following parameters:

- A |Signer|_ to sign the transaction.
- An |AccountAddress|_, which pays for the transaction.
- A maximum |Energy|_ that the contract initialization can use.
- A |ModuleReference|_, which you got from the deployment above.
- An |OwnedContractName|_, that specifies which contract in the module you want to initialize.
  Contract names are prefixed with ``init_`` on the chain to distinguish them from receive functions (entrypoints).
  You constuct it with either |OwnedContractName_new|_, which checks the validity and returns a ``Result``, or |OwnedContractName_new_unchecked|_, which performs no checking.

> - An |OwnedParameter|_, which is a wrapper over a byte array that you construct with

Reviewer: Yes, I'll add that.

  - |OwnedParameter_from_serial|_, which serializes the input and checks that the parameter size is valid,
  - ``TryFrom::<Vec<u8>>::try_from(..)``, which also checks the parameter size,
  - or |OwnedParameter_empty|_, which always succeeds.

- An |Amount|_ to send the contract.

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports and constants omitted for brevity

   #[test]
   fn test_init() {
       // .. lines omitted for brevity.
       let initialization = chain
           .contract_init(
               Signer::with_one_key(),
               ACC_ADDR_OWNER,
               Energy::from(10000),
               InitContractPayload {
                   mod_ref: deployment.module_reference,
                   init_name: OwnedContractName::new_unchecked("init_PiggyBank".to_string()),
                   param: OwnedParameter::empty(),
                   amount: Amount::zero(),
               }
           )
           .expect("Initialization should always succeed");
   }

Initialization can fail for several different reasons, and thus returns a ``Result``, which is unwrapped with ``expect``.

> The struct returned contains information about the energy used, transaction fee, contract events (logs) produced, and a |ContractAddress|_ that you use for updating and interacting with the contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The returned struct contains information about the energy used, transaction fee, contract events (logs) produced, and a |ContractAddress|_ that you use for updating and interacting with the contract.
```

====================================

Next, you should test the different functions for interacting with a piggy bank.
You will start by testing the ``insert`` entrypoint on an intact piggy bank contract.

> Create a new test case, named ``test_insert_intact``, and use the helper method ``create_chain_and_contract`` from the previous section to get a chain with two accounts and an initialized piggy bank contract.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a new test case named ``test_insert_intact``, and use the helper method ``create_chain_and_contract`` from the previous section to get a chain with two accounts and an initialized piggy bank contract.
```

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports, constants, and other functions omitted for brevity.

   #[test]
   fn test_insert_intact() {
       let (mut chain, initialization) = create_chain_and_contract();
   }

Note that you must mark the ``chain`` variable as mutable, since contract updates mutate it.

Now, you are ready to update the contract with the |Chain_contract_update|_ method, which has parameters similar to |Chain_contract_init|_:

- A |Signer|_ to sign the transaction.
- An ``invoker`` of type |AccountAddress|_, which pays for the transaction.
- An ``sender`` of type |Address|_, which can either be an |AccountAddress|_ or a |ContractAddress|_.

>   The main utility of the parameter is to simulate calls from a contract without having to create a dummy contract the simply forwards the call.

Reviewer: I've rewritten the explanation for the `sender` parameter and tried to make its purpose more clear.

- A maximum |Energy|_ that the contract update can use.
- A |ContractAddress|_, which you get from the initialization variable.
- An |OwnedReceiveName|_, that specifies which receive name in the module you want to initialize.

  - A "receive name" is the contract name concatenated with the entrypoint name and a dot in between.
  - In this example, the contract ``my_contract`` and the entrypoint ``my_entrypoint`` combine to the receive name ``my_contract.my_entrypoint``.
  - You construct it with either |OwnedReceiveName_new|_, which checks the format and returns a ``Result``, or |OwnedReceiveName_new_unchecked|_, which performs no checks.

> - An |OwnedParameter|_, which is a wrapper over a byte array that you construct with

Author: would it be appropriate to add at the end of this line "...one of the following:"

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports, constants, and other functions omitted for brevity.

   #[test]
   fn test_insert_intact() {
       let (mut chain, initialization) = create_chain_and_contract();
       let insert_amount = Amount::from_ccd(10);

       let update = chain
           .contract_update(
               Signer::with_one_key(),
               ACC_ADDR_OWNER,
               Address::Account(ACC_ADDR_OWNER),
               Energy::from(10000),
               UpdateContractPayload {
                   amount: insert_amount,
                   address: initialization.contract_address,
                   receive_name: OwnedReceiveName::new_unchecked("PiggyBank.insert".to_string()),
                   message: OwnedParameter::empty(),
               },
           );

       assert!(update.is_ok(), "Inserting into intact piggy bank failed");
       assert!(
           chain.contract_balance(initialization.contract_address),
           Some(insert_amount)
           "Piggy bank balance does not match amount inserted"
       );
   }

> Again, you should verify everything compiles and the tests succeeds using ``cargo

Author: ```suggestion
Again, verify that everything compiles and the tests succeed using ``cargo
```

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports, constants, and other functions omitted for brevity.
   #[test]
   fn test_smash_intact(){
       let (mut chain, initialization) = create_chain_and_contract();

       let update = chain
           .contract_update(
               Signer::with_one_key(),
               ACC_ADDR_OWNER,
               Address::Account(ACC_ADDR_OWNER),
               Energy::from(10000),
               UpdateContractPayload {
                   amount: Amount::zero(),
                   address: initialization.contract_address,
                   receive_name: OwnedReceiveName::new_unchecked("PiggyBank.smash".to_string()),
                   message: OwnedParameter::empty(),
               },
           )
           .expect("Owner is allowed to smash intact piggy bank");
   }

Note that you must use the ``ACC_ADDR_OWNER`` for the ``sender`` argument, since it is only the owner who can smash the piggy bank.

To check the ``PiggyBankState``, you must invoke the ``view`` with the |Chain_contract_invoke|_ method.

> You could also use |Chain_contract_update|_ for this purpose, as we are just interested in the return value, but the benefit of |Chain_contract_invoke|_ is that it *isn't* a transaction.

Author: ```suggestion
You could also use |Chain_contract_update|_ for this purpose, as you are just interested in the return value, but the benefit of |Chain_contract_invoke|_ is that it *isn't* a transaction.
```

So it does not charge the account for calling it, and it does not save changes to contracts.

> For seasoned Rust programmers that is easily seen by its function signature, which takes an immutable reference to the chain (``&self``), as opposed to the mutable reference (``&mut self``) used in the update method.

Author: ```suggestion
For seasoned Rust programmers, that is easily seen by its function signature, which takes an immutable reference to the chain (``&self``), as opposed to the mutable reference (``&mut self``) used in the update method.
```

Also note that the |Signer|_ parameter is not needed for the invoke method, as the signer is only needed for transactions.

> Invoke the ``view`` function underneath the update:

Author: ```suggestion
Invoke the ``view`` function below the update:
```

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports, constants, and other functions omitted for brevity.
   #[test]
   fn test_smash_intact(){

       // .. Lines omitted for brevity.

       let invoke = chain
           .contract_invoke(
               ACC_ADDR_OWNER,
               Address::Account(ACC_ADDR_OWNER),
               Energy::from(10000),
               UpdateContractPayload {
                   amount: Amount::zero(),
                   address: initialization.contract_address,
                   receive_name: OwnedReceiveName::new_unchecked("PiggyBank.view".to_string()),
                   message: OwnedParameter::empty(),
               },
           )
           .expect("Invoking `view` should always succeed");
   }

> Next step is to use the return value from (``invoke.return_value``), which is a byte array representing a tuple of ``PiggyBankState`` and ``Amount``.

Author: ```suggestion
The next step is to use the return value from (``invoke.return_value``), which is a byte array representing a tuple of ``PiggyBankState`` and ``Amount``.
```

While it is possible to make assertions about the bytes directly, it is preferable to deserialize the bytes into structured Rust types.
There is a helper method |from_bytes|_ for this exact purpose:

.. code-block:: rust

   // .. Imports, constants, and other functions omitted for brevity.
   #[test]
   fn test_smash_intact(){

       // .. Lines omitted for brevity.
       let (state, balance): (PiggyBankState, Amount) =
           from_bytes(&invoke.return_value).expect("View should always return a valid result");

Since deserialization might fail, |from_bytes|_ returns a ``Result`` that is unwrapped here.
If you run ``cargo test`` at this point, the compiler will complain about ``PiggyBankState`` being undeclared.
This is because types and functions in Rust are private by default.
To make the ``PiggyBankState`` public, edit the ``lib.rs`` file and add the ``pub`` keyword.

.. code-block:: rust
   :emphasize-lines: 1

   pub enum PiggyBankState {
      Intact,
      Smashed,

>    }

Reviewer 2: Do we want to change this when adding the code to the repository? There isn't much point in making this private I think

Reviewer: Yes, in part 2. I think it is good to have it private in part 1 so that we can explain the default Rust behavior in the tutorial.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: Maybe this could be more prominent. Do we have something like `warn` or `important` instead?

Reviewer: Good idea. I've made it important and I also added it as the fifth step in the overview in the guide.

   The change you just made does not affect the functionality of the contract, but when you make changes that do, you need to recompile the contract with ``cargo concordium build`` before running the tests again.

>    Otherwise, you will continue using the old wasm module.

Author: ```suggestion
   Otherwise, you will continue using the old Wasm module.
```

you should still be able to represent this error and distinguish it from the two
other error types.

> When updates and invokes fail, they return an |ContractInvokeError|_ struct, which has information about the transaction fee, energy usage, and also the *reason* why a contract call failed.

Author: ```suggestion
When updates and invokes fail, they return a |ContractInvokeError|_ struct, which has information about the transaction fee, energy usage, and also the *reason* why a contract call failed.
```
